# ABOUT ME

Pierre Sassoulas , DevOps Team Lead at Elum Energy \texorpdfstring{ \_\_( Open-source
maintainer

## Contact me

pierre.sassoulas at gmail.com

# EDUCATION

## Master's Degree in Engineering

**2009 - 2015** : INSA de Rouen, 3 years CS/IT specialization following 2 years of
generalist studies

# PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

## DevOps Team Lead

\***\*management\*\*** : Elum Energy, Remote

I'm doing annual review and organizing the team on top of what I was already doing as a
Devops engineer.

## DevOps Engineer

\***\*SaltStack**, **devops\*\*** : Elum Energy, Remote

I'm helping to put practices and tools into place that will increases our ability to
deliver our products rapidly and at scale. I also provide training, develop on both
internal tools and the actual products, and help deploy the code into production.

## Freelance

\***\*Business ownership\*\*** : Self employed, Remote

I'm providing services to companies around the open-source repositories I maintain by
adding features or guaranteeing that there will not be any security issues.

## Technical lead

\***\*mentorship**, **change management\*\*** : EdF Store \& Forecast, Lyon

Within the Optimization \& Forecasting team, I set up packaging and an internal python
package server, testing, automatic commit level checks through static analysis,
continuous integration, dockerization, and continuous production deployment using
ansible and kubernetes. I provide training on software topics and propose solutions for
the harmonization, design, and maintainability of software products.

## Technical Consultant / Software engineer

\***\*client-focus**, **pragmatism\*\*** : Antidot, Lyon

Development of specific modules; level 3 support and management of a deployment pipeline
of a technical documentation platform or document search and processing solutions.
Implementation of standards and tools within a newly created team. Converted document
formats (Word, Framemaker, etc.) to HTML. Made an internal API usable by external
integrators.

## Software engineer

\***\*C++**, **docker**, **python\*\*** : WiseBim, Remote work

Set up of a SAAS architecture allowing to automatically generate 3D building information
modeling (BIM) based on architectural 2D plans in a secure and reliable manner through a
web interface.

## Research engineer

\***\*big data**, **python**, **C++\*\*** : CEA/INES, Chambéry

Study and implementation of a database cluster and its web interface in order to store,
display and analyse a wide variety of data flux stemming from sensors.

# PERSONAL EXPERIENCE

## Maintener

\***\*conflict resolution\*\*** : Open-source, Github

Core maintener of \textbf{pylint}, \textbf{prospector}, \textbf{pytest}, three of the
250 most downloaded packages on pypi.

## Computer working group facilitator

\***\*mentorship**, **pedagogy\*\*** : Mixteen, Lyon

Supervising children during workshop permitting to discover computer science in a
playful manner tools like Scratch, Thymio, Pygame and Micro$:$bit depending on their
age.

## Factotum

\***\*Film making\*\*** : Insa, Rouen

In groups of 3 to 5, writing, filming, editing and promoting of a feminist comedy, an
action film, a suspens film and a modern western as part of the ``Section Image Étude''
in INSA.

# LANGUAGE

## French

Maternal

## English

Advanced (C2) (TOEIC 2013: 920/990)

## Spanish

Intermediate
